README.md, before:

# OpenCTI Installation Script

This repository contains a script to automate the installation and configuration of OpenCTI (Open Cyber Threat Intelligence Platform) using Docker.

## Prerequisites

- Linux-based operating system (Ubuntu/Debian recommended)
- Root or sudo privileges
- Internet connection
- At least 4GB of RAM
- At least 20GB of free disk space

## Quick Start

1. Clone this repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/opencti-install.git
cd opencti-install
```

2. Make the installation script executable:
```bash
chmod +x open_cti.sh
```

3. Run the installation script:
```bash
sudo ./open_cti.sh
```

## Installation Options

The script supports several command-line options:

```bash
Usage: ./open_cti.sh [options]
Options:
  -h, --help                 Show this help message and exit
  -d, --directory <path>     Specify the installation directory (default: /opt/opencti)
  -s, --skip-docker         Skip Docker and Docker Compose installation
  -e, --env-only            Only generate the .env file, skip installation steps
```

## What Gets Installed

The script will install and configure:

1. **Docker and Docker Compose** (unless skipped with -s)
2. **OpenCTI Platform** (version 5.12.5)
3. **Required Services**:
   - Redis 6.2
   - Elasticsearch 7.17.9
   - MinIO (latest stable)
   - RabbitMQ 3.11

## Configuration

### Environment Variables

The script automatically generates a `.env` file with the following default settings:

- Admin Email: admin@opencti.io
- Admin Password: ChangeMePlease
- Base URL: http://localhost:8080
- All other required tokens and credentials are automatically generated

### Service Configurations

1. **Redis**:
   - Persistent storage enabled
   - Health checks configured

2. **Elasticsearch**:
   - Single node configuration
   - Memory settings optimized
   - Thread pool queue size increased
   - Security disabled for development

3. **MinIO**:
   - Console available on port 9001
   - Persistent storage configured

4. **RabbitMQ**:
   - Management interface enabled
   - Custom configuration for message size and timeouts
   - Health checks configured

## Accessing OpenCTI

After installation:

1. Open your browser and navigate to: http://localhost:8080
2. Login with the default credentials:
   - Email: admin@opencti.io
   - Password: ChangeMePlease

**Important**: Change the default password after your first login!

## Service Management

### Starting Services
```bash
cd /opt/opencti
docker-compose up -d
```

### Stopping Services
```bash
cd /opt/opencti
docker-compose down
```

### Viewing Logs
```bash
cd /opt/opencti
docker-compose logs -f
```

## Health Checks

All services include health checks that run every 30 seconds. You can monitor the health status using:

```bash
docker-compose ps
```

## Data Persistence

All data is stored in Docker volumes:
- `redis-data`: Redis data
- `elasticsearch-data`: Elasticsearch indices
- `minio-data`: MinIO object storage
- `rabbitmq-data`: RabbitMQ data
- `opencti-data`: OpenCTI application data

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Elasticsearch fails to start**:
   - Check if `vm.max_map_count` is set correctly
   - Verify available memory

2. **Services not starting**:
   - Check logs: `docker-compose logs`
   - Verify all ports are available
   - Check disk space

3. **Connection issues**:
   - Verify all services are running: `docker-compose ps`
   - Check service logs for specific errors

### Logs Location

- Installation logs: `/var/log/opencti_install.log`
- Service logs: `docker-compose logs [service-name]`

## Security Considerations

1. Change all default passwords after installation
2. Configure proper firewall rules
3. Enable SSL/TLS for production use
4. Review and adjust security settings in Elasticsearch

## Upgrading

To upgrade OpenCTI:

1. Stop the services:
```bash
cd /opt/opencti
docker-compose down
```

2. Update the images in docker-compose.yml
3. Pull new images:
```bash
docker-compose pull
```

4. Start services:
```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

Commit message:

Add Docker Compose version check and upgrade in open_cti.sh
Introduced a function to check the installed Docker Compose version and automatically upgrade to V2 if an older version is detected. Updated the installation directory handling to clean existing files if the directory already exists. Enhanced README.md to reflect these changes and provide guidance on Docker Compose version issues.

README.md, after:

# OpenCTI Installation Script

This repository contains a script to automate the installation and configuration of OpenCTI (Open Cyber Threat Intelligence Platform) using Docker.

## Prerequisites

- Linux-based operating system (Ubuntu/Debian recommended)
- Root or sudo privileges
- Internet connection
- At least 4GB of RAM
- At least 20GB of free disk space
- Docker Compose V2 or higher (the script will automatically upgrade if needed)

## Quick Start

1. Clone this repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/opencti-install.git
cd opencti-install
```

2. Make the installation script executable:
```bash
chmod +x open_cti.sh
```

3. Run the installation script:
```bash
sudo ./open_cti.sh
```

## Installation Options

The script supports several command-line options:

```bash
Usage: ./open_cti.sh [options]
Options:
  -h, --help                 Show this help message and exit
  -d, --directory <path>     Specify the installation directory (default: /opt/opencti)
  -s, --skip-docker         Skip Docker and Docker Compose installation
  -e, --env-only            Only generate the .env file, skip installation steps
```

## What Gets Installed

The script will install and configure:

1. **Docker and Docker Compose** (unless skipped with -s)
   - Docker Compose V2 will be installed if an older version is detected
2. **OpenCTI Platform** (version 5.12.5)
3. **Required Services**:
   - Redis 6.2
   - Elasticsearch 7.17.9
   - MinIO (latest stable)
   - RabbitMQ 3.11

## Configuration

### Environment Variables

The script automatically generates a `.env` file with the following default settings:

- Admin Email: admin@opencti.io
- Admin Password: ChangeMePlease
- Base URL: http://localhost:8080
- All other required tokens and credentials are automatically generated

### Service Configurations

1. **Redis**:
   - Persistent storage enabled
   - Health checks configured

2. **Elasticsearch**:
   - Single node configuration
   - Memory settings optimized
   - Thread pool queue size increased
   - Security disabled for development

3. **MinIO**:
   - Console available on port 9001
   - Persistent storage configured

4. **RabbitMQ**:
   - Management interface enabled
   - Custom configuration for message size and timeouts
   - Health checks configured

## Accessing OpenCTI

After installation:

1. Open your browser and navigate to: http://localhost:8080
2. Login with the default credentials:
   - Email: admin@opencti.io
   - Password: ChangeMePlease

**Important**: Change the default password after your first login!

## Service Management

### Starting Services
```bash
cd /opt/opencti
docker-compose up -d
```

### Stopping Services
```bash
cd /opt/opencti
docker-compose down
```

### Viewing Logs
```bash
cd /opt/opencti
docker-compose logs -f
```

## Health Checks

All services include health checks that run every 30 seconds. You can monitor the health status using:

```bash
docker-compose ps
```

## Data Persistence

All data is stored in Docker volumes:
- `redis-data`: Redis data
- `elasticsearch-data`: Elasticsearch indices
- `minio-data`: MinIO object storage
- `rabbitmq-data`: RabbitMQ data
- `opencti-data`: OpenCTI application data

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Docker Compose Version Issues**:
   - If you see "ContainerConfig" errors, ensure you're using Docker Compose V2
   - The script will automatically upgrade Docker Compose if needed
   - Manual upgrade: `sudo curl -SL https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/download/v2.24.5/docker-compose-linux-x86_64 -o /usr/local/bin/docker-compose && sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/docker-compose`

2. **Elasticsearch fails to start**:
   - Check if `vm.max_map_count` is set correctly
   - Verify available memory
   - Check logs: `docker-compose logs elasticsearch`

3. **Services not starting**:
   - Check logs: `docker-compose logs`
   - Verify all ports are available
   - Check disk space
   - Ensure Docker daemon is running: `sudo systemctl status docker`

4. **Connection issues**:
   - Verify all services are running: `docker-compose ps`
   - Check service logs for specific errors
   - Ensure no firewall is blocking the ports

5. **Installation Directory Issues**:
   - If you get "destination path already exists" error, the script will now automatically clean the directory
   - To start fresh: `sudo rm -rf /opt/opencti/*` before running the script

### Logs Location

- Installation logs: `/var/log/opencti_install.log`
- Service logs: `docker-compose logs [service-name]`

## Security Considerations

1. Change all default passwords after installation
2. Configure proper firewall rules
3. Enable SSL/TLS for production use
4. Review and adjust security settings in Elasticsearch

## Upgrading

To upgrade OpenCTI:

1. Stop the services:
```bash
cd /opt/opencti
docker-compose down
```

2. Update the images in docker-compose.yml
3. Pull new images:
```bash
docker-compose pull
```

4. Start services:
```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.
